Add 3.17 release announcement (#402)
pulp/pulpproject.org: _posts/2021-12-15-pulpcore-3.17-is-ga.md

author: Melanie Corr
tags:
  - release
---

# Pulpcore 3.17 release announcement

We are happy to announce the release of Pulpcore 3.17!

Let's take a look at the key features of this release.

For a full list of bugfixes, as well as Plugin API enhancements and bugfixes, see the [changelog](https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulpcore/changes.html)

### New compatibility process

This is the first release where we will trial our  attempt to maintain plugin compatibility. For plugin maintainers, please read [increasing Pulpcore compatibility with plugin versions](https://pulpproject.org/2021/11/23/increasing-pulpcore-compatibility-with-plugin-versions/) for more information.

## RBAC enhancements ([#9411](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9411), [#9413](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9413), [#9415](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9415), [#9498](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9498), [#9604](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9604))

RBAC functionality in Pulp now has a new Roles model. To introduce and support roles in RBAC, it was necessary to introduce some supporting functions as well as rework existing functionality to use roles.

Here is a summary of the main introductions and changes to RBAC:

> * New endpoints added for user and group roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A viewset to manage roles (as a set of permissions) was added. System defined locked roles appear read only.
* New endpoints were added for user and group role assignments including roles with a global scope.
```
But also the second line is already covered by line 29.

> * Options to customize the roles in your viewset

Reviewer: Where did this come from? Maybe it's
`Plugins can define locked system roles with their view sets.`

Author: Creative :-(

> * New ``assign_role`` and ``remove_role`` functions

Reviewer: ... have been added to the plugin api.

* New views have been added to assign model-level and object-level roles to users and groups.

> * existing access policies on viewsets were also rewritten to use roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Existing access policies on viewsets were also rewritten to use roles.
```

> RBAC's Content Guards have also been reworked to use roles, with the addition of the following new new endpoints to the RBAC content guard viewset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RBAC's Content Guards have also been reworked to use roles.
The following new new endpoints are added to the RBAC capable viewsets:
```
then the list of four endpoints.
...then:
`This currently includes groups, tasks and RBAC content guard.`

Background: We expect them to appear on all viewsets that are controlled by RBAC in the future.

* ``add_roles``
* ``remove_roles``
* ``list_roles``
* ``my_permissions``

The same object-specific endpoints have been added to tasks and groups viewsets.

> If you ever want to revert to the default settings, a new `reset` endpoint has been added to provide for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you ever want to revert a modified access policy to the default settings, a new `reset` endpoint has been added to provide for this. This will clear the customized flag, too, so updates from the plugin will be received.
```
This was impossible before. Once you touched an AP, it was tainted forever and updated plugins would never update it again.

---
title: Pulpcore 3.17 is now Generally Available
author: Melanie Corr
tags:
  - release
---

# Pulpcore 3.17 release announcement

We are happy to announce the release of Pulpcore 3.17!

Let's take a look at the key features of this release.

For a full list of bugfixes, as well as Plugin API enhancements and bugfixes, see the [changelog](https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulpcore/changes.html)

### New compatibility process

> This is the first release where we will trial our  attempt to maintain plugin compatibility. For plugin maintainers, please read [increasing Pulpcore compatibility with plugin versions](https://pulpproject.org/2021/11/23/increasing-pulpcore-compatibility-with-plugin-versions/) for more information.

Reviewer 2: s/maintain/increase

## RBAC enhancements ([#9411](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9411), [#9413](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9413), [#9415](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9415), [#9498](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9498), [#9604](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/9604))

RBAC functionality in Pulp now has a new Roles model. To introduce and support roles in RBAC, it was necessary to introduce some supporting functions as well as rework existing functionality to use roles.

Here is a summary of the main introductions and changes to RBAC:

> * A viewset to manage roles (as a set of permissions) was added. System defined locked roles appear read only
> * New endpoints were added for user and group role assignments including roles with a global scope
> * Plugins can define locked system roles with their viewsets.
> * New ``assign_role`` and ``remove_role`` functions have been added to the Plugin API
> * New views have been added to assign model-level and object-level roles to users and groups
> * Existing access policies on viewsets were also rewritten to use roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A viewset to manage roles (as a set of permissions) was added. System defined locked roles appear read only.
* New views have been added to assign model-level and object-level roles to users and groups.
* Plugins can define locked system roles with their viewsets.
* New ``assign_role`` and ``remove_role`` functions have been added to the Plugin API.
* Existing access policies on viewsets were also rewritten to use roles.
```

Lines 27 and 30 were still duplicated.
Do we want those list items to have punctuation? We should at least be consistent.

RBAC's Content Guards have also been reworked to use roles.

> The following new new endpoints are added to the RBAC capable viewsets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following new endpoints were added to the RBAC capable viewsets to manage object-level role assignments:
```

* ``add_roles``
* ``remove_roles``
* ``list_roles``
* ``my_permissions``

This currently includes groups, tasks and RBAC content guard.
 

> If you ever want to revert a modified access policy to the default settings, a new `reset` endpoint has been added to provide for this. This will clear the customized flag, too, so updates from the plugin will be received.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you ever want to revert a modified access policy to the default settings, a new `reset` endpoint has been added to provide for this. This will clear the customized flag, too, so updates from the plugin will be received again.
```
